# OSK 2002

## English Translation

### First Part

1. The number $\dfrac{(2^4)^8}{(4^8)^2}$ equals
A. 1/4
B. 1/2
C. 1
D. 2
E. 8

2. Bando always lies. One day he said to his neighbor, Andi: "At least one of us never lies." From this information, we can be sure that
A. Andi always lies
B. Andi sometimes lies
C. Andi always says the truth
D. Andi sometimes says the truth
E. Andi never says anything

3. The biggest number $n$ such that $8^n$ divides $44^{44}$ is
A. 8
B. 22
C. 29
D. 44
E. 88

4. Which statement is true?
A. If $x < 0$ then $x^2 > x$
B. If $x^2 > 0$ then $x > 0$
C. If $x^2 > x$ then $x > 0$
D. If $x^2 > x$ then $x < 0$
E. If $x < 1$ then $x^2 < x$

5. Let $x^{-n}$ be equal to $(\dfrac{1}{x})^n$ for all real number x. Then, $a^3 - a^{-3}$ equals
A. $(a - \dfrac{1}{a})(a^2 + 1 + \dfrac{1}{a^2})$
B. $(\dfrac{1}{a} - a)(a^2 - 1 + \dfrac{1}{a^2})$
C. $(a - \dfrac{1}{a})(a^2 - 2 + \dfrac{1}{a^2})$
D. $(\dfrac{1}{a} - a)(\dfrac{1}{a^2} + 1 + a^2)$
E. Not in A, B, C, and D

6. Five goats ate grassfields that's 5 times the size of a soccer field in 5 days. How many days does it need for 3 goats to eat grassfields that's 3 times the size of a soccer field?
A. 2
B. 3
C. 4
D. 5
E. 6

7. If for all real numbers $x, y$ holds $x\$y = xy - x + y$ then $(x+y)\$(x-y)$ equals
A. $x^2 - y^2 + 2x$
B. $x^2 - y^2 - 2x$
C. $x^2 - y^2 + 2y$
D. $x^2 - y^2 - 2y$
E. $x^2 - y^2$

8. How many pairs of positive integers $(a, b)$ that satisfy $\dfrac{1}{a} + \dfrac{1}{b} = \dfrac{1}{6}$
A. 1
B. 2
C. 3
D. 4
E. 5

9. For which value of $a$, the line $y = 6x$ intersects the parabola $y = x^2 + a$ at exactly one point?
A. 7
B. 8
C. 9
D. 10
E. 11

10. The digits $1, 9, 9, 8$ in $1998$ has a sum of $1 + 9 + 9 + 8 = 27$. The next number that has a sum of $27$ happens between the year
A. 2500 and 2700
B. 2701 and 2900
C. 2901 and 3100
D. 3101 and 9900
E. 9901 and 9999

### Second Part

11. In a triangle $\triangle ABC$, angle $C$ is three times larger than angle $A$, and angle $B$ is two times larger than angle $A$. What is the ratio between the sidelengts $AB$ and $BC$?

12. Bando and Bandi is going to paint a fence. Bando can finish it himself in 3 hours, while Bandi can finish it in 4 hours. At 12:00 PM, they started to paint together. However, at one point they started to argue. They argued for 10 minutes, and in that period, no one painted. After they finished arguing, Bandi left, and Bando finished the job himself. If Bando finished it at 14:25 PM, when does the arguing start?

13. What is the sum of the digits of $2^{2002} \cdot 5^{2003}$

14. How many positive integers less than $10.000$ are there that's in the form of $x^8 + y^8$ for some integer $x > 0$ and $y > 0$?

15. Determine the smallest $n$ such that each subset of ${1, 2, 3, \dots, 20}$ of size $n$ has to contain two elements with the difference of $8$.

16. Line $AB$ and $CD$ is parallel and has a distance of 4 units. Let $P$ be the intersection of $AD$ and $BC$ that's between the two lines. If $AB = 4$ and $CD = 12$, how far is $P$ from the line $CD$?

17. Let $a$ and $b$ be different real numbers such that
$$\dfrac{a}{b} + \dfrac{a+10b}{b+10a} = 2$$
Determine the value of $\dfrac{a}{b}$

18. A positive integer $p \ge 2$ is prime if the only factor it has are $1$ and $p$. Determine the sum of primes between 1 and 100 that has the property one more than a multiple of 5 and one less than a multiple of 6.

19. Let
$$a = \dfrac{1^2}{1} + \dfrac{2^2}{3} + \dfrac{3^2}{5} + \dots + \dfrac{1001^2}{2001}$$
and
$$b = \dfrac{1^2}{3} + \dfrac{2^2}{5} + \dfrac{3^2}{7} + \dots + \dfrac{1001^2}{2003}$$
Determine the integer which its value is closest to $a - b$

20. A rectangle of size 8 times $2\sqrt{2}$ has a center that's the same with a circle of radius 2. What is the area of the intersection of the rectangle and the circle?

## Original

### Bagian Pertama

1. Bilangan $\dfrac{(2^4)^8}{(4^8)^2}$ sama dengan 
A. 1/4
B. 1/2
C. 1
D. 2
E. 8

2. Bando selalu berkata bohong. Suatu hari dia berkata kepada tetangganya, Andi: "Paling tidak salah satu diantara kita tidak pernah berbohong." Dari informasi ini kita merasa pasti bahwa 
A. Andi selalu berbohong
B. Andi sesekali berbohong
C. Andi selalu berkata benar
D. Andi sesekali berkata benar
E. Andi tidak pernah berkata apa pun

3. Bilangan $n$ terbesar sehingga $8^n$ membagi $44^{44}$ adalah
A. 8
B. 22
C. 29
D. 44
E. 88

4. Pernyataan manakah yang benar?
A. Jika $x < 0$ maka $x^2 > x$
B. Jika $x^2 > 0$ maka $x > 0$
C. Jika $x^2 > x$ maka $x > 0$
D. Jika $x^2 > x$ maka $x < 0$
E. Jika $x < 1$ maka $x^2 < x$

5. 