# OSN 2019

## English Translation

### Day 1

1. Given that $n$ and $r$ are positive integers.
Suppose that
$$1 + 2 + \dots + (n - 1) = (n + 1) + (n + 2) + \dots + (n + r)$$
Prove that $n$ is a composite number.

2. Given $19$ red boxes and $200$ blue boxes filled with balls. None of which is empty.
Suppose that every red boxes have a maximum of $200$ balls and every blue boxes have a maximum of $19$ balls.
Suppose that the sum of all balls in the red boxes is less than the sum of all the balls in the blue boxes.
Prove that there exists a subset of the red boxes and a subset of the blue boxes such that their sum is the same.

3. Given that $ABCD$ is a rectangle such that $AD > AB$, where $E$ is on $AD$ such that $BE \perp AC$. Let $M$ be the intersection of $AC$ and $BE$. Let the circumcircle of $\triangle ABE$ intersects $AC$ and $BC$ at $N$ and $F$.
Moreover, let the circumcircle of $\triangle DNE$ intersects $CD$ at $G$.
Suppose $FG$ intersects $AB$ at $P$.
Prove that $PM = PN$.

4. Let us define a $\textit{triangle equivalence}$ a group of numbers that can be arranged as shown
$$a+b=c$$
$$d+e+f=g+h$$
$$i+j+k+l=m+n+o$$
and so on...<br>
where at the $j$-th row, the left hand side has $j+1$ terms and the right hand side has $j$ terms.
Now, we are given the first $N^2$ positive integers, where $N$ is a positive integer. Suppose we eliminate any one number that has the same parity with $N$.<br>
Prove that the remaining $N^2-1$ numbers can be formed into a $\textit{triangle equivalence}$.
For example, if $10$ is eliminated from the first $16$ numbers, the remaining numbers can be arranged into a $\textit{triangle equivalence}$ as shown.
$$1+3=4$$
$$2+5+8=6+9$$
$$7+11+12+14=13+15+16$$

### Day 2

5. Given that $a$ and $b$ are real numbers such that for infinitely many positive integers $m$ and $n$,
$$\lfloor an + b \rfloor \ge \lfloor a + bn \rfloor$$
$$\lfloor a + bm \rfloor \ge \lfloor am + b \rfloor$$
Prove that $a = b$.

6. Given a circle with center $O$, such that $A$ is not on the circumcircle.
Let $B$ be the reflection of $A$ with respect to $O$. Now let $P$ be a point on the circumcircle. The line perpendicular to $AP$ through $P$ intersects the circle at $Q$.
Prove that $AP \times BQ$ remains constant as $P$ varies.

7. Determine all solutions of
$$x + y^2 = p^m$$
$$x^2 + y = p^n$$
For $x,y,m,n$ positive integers and $p$ being a prime.

8. Let $n > 1$ be a positive integer and $a_1, a_2, \dots, a_2n \in \{ -n, -n + 1, \dots, n - 1, n \}$. Suppose
$$a_1 + a_2 + a_3 + \dots + a_{2n} = n + 1$$
Prove that some of $a_1, a_2, \dots, a_{2n}$ have sum 0.

## Original

### Hari Pertama

1.

### Hari Kedua

5. 